Create an EC2 instance
Create an Amazon RDS MySql database
Connect EC2 instance to RDS database instance

Generate key/value permissions file for EC2 Instance "developer_connection.pem" and save it on your local computer.

------------------------------
Enable SSH on AWS EC2 Instance
------------------------------
To add a rule to a security group for inbound SSH traffic over IPv4 (console)

Open the Amazon EC2 console at https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/.

From the top navigation bar, select a Region for the security group. Security groups are specific to a Region, so you should select the same Region in which you created your instance.

In the navigation pane, choose Instances.

Select your instance and, in bottom half of the screen, choose the Security tab. Security groups lists the security groups that are associated with the instance. Inbound rules displays a list of the inbound rules that are in effect for the instance.

For the security group to which you'll add the new rule, choose the security group ID link to open the security group.

On the Inbound rules tab, choose Edit inbound rules.

On the Edit inbound rules page, do the following:

Choose Add rule.

For Type, choose SSH.

For Source, choose My IP to automatically populate the field with the public IPv4 address of your local computer.

Alternatively, for Source, choose Custom and enter the public IPv4 address of your computer or network in CIDR notation. For example, if your IPv4 address is 203.0.113.25, enter 203.0.113.25/32 to list this single IPv4 address in CIDR notation. If your company allocates addresses from a range, enter the entire range, such as 203.0.113.0/24.

For information about finding your IP address, see Before you start.

Choose Save rules.


-------------------------------
Connect SSH on AWS EC2 Instance
-------------------------------

Username is ec2-user for Amazon linux 2
Get the "Public IPv4 DNS" from instance dashboard

ssh -i DeveloperAccessLumiate01.pem ubuntu@ec2-3-25-253-209.ap-southeast-2.compute.amazonaws.com

-------------------------------------
RDS Public connectivity configuration
-------------------------------------

*** My DB instance is in a private subnet, and I can't connect to it from my local computer ***

You can resolve this issue by using a public subnet. When you use a public subnet, all the resources on the subnet are accessible from the internet. If this solution doesn't meet your security requirements, then use AWS Site-to-Site VPN. With Site-to-Site VPN, you configure a customer gateway that allows you to connect your VPC to your remote network.

Another method to resolve this issue is using an Amazon EC2 instance as a bastion (jump) host. For more information, see How can I connect to a private Amazon RDS DB instance from a local machine using an Amazon EC2 instance as a bastion host?

To switch to a public subnet:

1.    Open the Amazon RDS console.

2.    Choose Databases from the navigation pane, and then choose the DB instance.

3.    From the Connectivity & Security section, copy the endpoint of the DB instance.

4.    Perform an nslookup to the DB instance endpoint from an EC2 instance within the VPC. See the following example output:

nslookup myexampledb.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com
Server: xx.xx.xx.xx
Address: xx.xx.xx.xx#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name: myexampledb.xxxx.us-east-1.rds.amazonaws.com
Address: 172.31.xx.x
5.    After you have the private IP address of your RDS DB instance, you can relate the private IP address to a particular subnet in the VPC. The VPC subnet is based on the subnet CIDR range and private IP address.

6.    Open the Amazon VPC console, and then choose Subnets from the navigation pane.

7.    Choose the subnet that is associated to the DB instance that you found in step 5.

8.    From the Description pane, choose the Route Table.

9.    Choose Actions, and then choose Edit routes.

10.    Choose Add route. For IPv4 and IPv6 traffic, in the Destination box, enter the routes for your external or on-premises network. Then, select the internet gateway ID in the Target list.
Note: Be sure that the Inbound security group rule for your instance restricts traffic to the addresses of your external or on-premises network. 

11.    Choose Save.

Important: If you change a subnet to public, then other DB instances in the subnet also become accessible from the internet. The DB instances are accessible from the internet if they have an associated public address.

If the DB instance still isn't accessible after following these steps, check to see if the DB instance is Publicly Accessible. To do this, follow the steps in My DB instance is in a private subnet, and I can't connect to it from my local computer.